%META:TOPICINFO{author="MichaelWilde" date="1150412325" format="1.0" version="1.2"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="SummerGridSyllabus2006"}%
Summer Grid Workshop Lab 2:

Retrieving and Exporting Your DOEGrids Certificate

 
In the Firefox Browser, go to http://pki1.doegrids.org/srchCert.html - this is a search interface to locate your certificate in the DOEGrids CA repository.

 

Note that you MUST use the same browser on the same computer that you used to request the certificate, because it is this browser that is holding your private key in its certificate repository.

 

In the "Subject Name" section, check the box marked “Show certificates with a subject name matching the following”, and enter your last name in the “Common Name” box.

Make sure Match Method of Partial is selected. Scroll (way down) to the bottom of the page and click Find.  At least one certificate - hopefully yours! - should be listed.  Click Details next to your certificate. At the very bottom of the Details page, click "Import Your Certificate".

 

If everything was done right, this should load the public-key portion of your certificate form the DOEGrids CA repository into the certificate repository within your browser.  To view and export the certificate (both public and private key) into a file, proceed with the next step.

 

Go to the Firefox menu and choose Preferences.

Click on the Advanced button and scroll down to the Certificates box.

 

Click on the Manage Certificates button:

 

 

Select the certificate you would like to use (there is likely only one, but you still need to select it) and click Backup to export the certificate from your browser into a file on your laptop:

 

 

 

Save as "mycert" (for example, "robcert"), which should export the certificate into a single file named "mycert.p12" in the directory $HOME/Documents/mycert.p12.  ".p12" is a code for the format supported by the browser.

 

Choose a Certificate backup password and click OK.

 

Verify, in a Terminal window, that a file by the name you requested has been created in the directory mentioned above, and check that its not empty.  Then, proceed to the next set of instructions to copy this file to your Linux lab system (the submit host, "gk1"), and convert it to the format Globus requires.

