OSG Management and External Projects:From Management Plan: The Resource Manager oversees all financial aspects of the OSG. This includes the finances within the OSG, as well as the contributions from external organizations. The Finance Board evaluates contributions, including contributions pledged from the stakeholder organizations, for the relations with the funding agencies, for contract policies, and for all administrative matters. Members of the Executive Board are: Executive Director and deputy, Council chair and deputy, Resources Manager and deputy, Applications Coordinator and deputy, Facility Coordinator and deputy, Education Coordinator, Operations Coordinator, Middleware Coordinator, Security Officer, Project Managers, Contributor Technical Managers.The Executive Board is expected to hold about eight meetings per year. Other members of OSG can be invited for discussions on particular issues at discretion of the chairperson, the Executive Director.Projects are the organizational means by which deliverables that OSG depends on are defined, agreed to, executed and delivered. Each project is managed by a project management team, and may be funded completely through the Consortium, include contributions both from within and external to the OSG, or be completely externally funded. The technical project managers are members of the Executive Board; the resource managers are members of the Resources Board. As examples, deliverables from stakeholder organizations, e.g. US CMS software and computing, or from externally funded DOE CET, SAPS, NSF PIF, ITR and other research programs are contributed to the OSG through such projects.External Project Contributor Technical Managers:IN PLACE:LIGO Physics at the Information Frontier - Patrick BradyCDIGS/Globus - Stu MartinUltralight - Frank Van LingenPENDING:US LHC (US representation to the WLCG) - Ian Fisk  (Bruce Gibbard)NEW:DISUN - Frank WuerthweinCondor - Todd TannenbaumCEDS - Ian Foster will discuss this at the upcoming CEDS face to face meeting.Security for Open Science - Deb AgarwalOSG Privilege/Authz - Gabriele GarzoglioOSG Accounting - Philippe CanaldCache - Rob KennedyDRM - 