%META:TOPICINFO{author="AlainRoy" date="1263939109" format="1.1" reprev="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="PlansTimelines"}%
---++ RSV Transition

(This document was written in January 2010, but it reflects the previous couple months of discussions between the GOC and VDT.)

In late 2009, we decided to clarify ownership for portions of RSV and move ownership as appropriate. In part this was triggered by the CMS request to change how RSV is distributed. Instead of using the new method in RSV version 3 to distribute the software directly from the RSV source code repository (A Subversion repository at the GOC), it should be shipped as tarballs that have gone through the same process as the rest of the VDT. That is, it should be versioned and tested in the VTB and/or ITB as appropriate.

In discussions, we decided the following points:

   1. The RSV source code repository is moving from the GOC to the VDT. We are currently working with our system administrators to get it set up--it's nearly ready. 
   1. We will publish a set of policies for how RSV probe developers should interact with us to maintain their RSV probes. This will be clearly documented and they will be provided with access to the source code repository. 
   1. The RSV source code will still be kept separate from VDT source code, because it's a separately versioned project. 
   1. RSV will be shipped as tarballs from the VDT cache. 
   1. We'll probably include rsv-control in the next release. 
   1. We intend to ship this change soon--December--to meet CMS's request. (Update: this now appears to be January, due to other delays in the VDT release.)
   1. The GOC will continue to own
      1. a set of the probes and the libraries that are common to all probes. However, they may be effort limited, and if major development effort is needed, they made need to ask the OSG Software Tools Group for help to find effort for it. This precise list is:
         1. ping-host-probe
         1. gram-authentication-probe
         1. osg-version-probe
         1. osg-directories-diskspace-probe
         1. osg-directories-permissions-probe
         1. jobmanagers-available-probe
         1. jobmanagers-status-probe
         1. gridftp-simple-probe
         1. vo-supported-probe
         1. certificate-expiry-local-probe
         1. RSVProbeBase.pm
      1. The operational infrastructure (RSV collector, etc.)
   1. Probes that are only needed by the GOC to run central monitoring will be removed from the RSV source code repository and will be wholly owned and maintained by the GOC. These are:
      1. cacert-expiry-central-probe
      1. cacert-verify-dn-central-probe
      1. crl-freshness-central-probe
      1. voms-verify-central-probe
      1. cacert-process-vdtupdate-central-probe
      1. cacert-verify-igtf-central-probe
      1. crl-process-fetchcrl-central-probe
      1. cacert-process-yumupdate-central-probe
      1. crl-expiry-central-probe
      1. bdii-available-probe
      1. rsv-collector-available-probe
   1. The VDT own the client-side portion of RSV: configure_osg_rsv, rsv-control, and Condor-Cron. 
   1. The VDT will now own the vdt-version probe. 
   1. We'll drop the rsv-ops mailing list and just use rsv-dev.
   1. The VDT Team will support RSV software (not operational) issues like any other software in the VDT: If the GOC gets a ticket that is an RSV software issue, it will assign it to the VDT team (not rsv-dev), and we'll own the ticket. We'll copy the appropriate experts as needed, which may be Arvind (for GOC probes, RSV library, or his general deep experience), or one of the probe owners. 
