%META:TOPICINFO{author="MineAltunay" date="1447708414" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
---++ Change Management Process for CILogon OSG CA

This document describes the change management process between OSG and CILogon teams regarding any changes to the OSG CILogon CA service. 

---++ Workflow 

   1 Create an OIM ticket to track the change being requested. Supply all details about the requester, the purpose, suggested timeline for deployment, and any other information pertinent to the change in the ticket. 
   2 Contact OSG security team for a security review. This review should focus on the security and community impact and need for the change. 
   3 Upon receiving the security team's review and approval, OSG Operations team will review the impact to the CA service. If it is deemed appropriate Operations will estimate the timeline for implementation and testing in the Integration Testbed (ITB). 
   4 Contact CILogon team to request the change. Changes first should apply to the test instance of the CILogon HSM service. 
   4 Upon successful completion of testing, one contact from OSG security and one from OSG Operations teams will draft a request for change to be sent to CILogon. This request will include proposed timeline for maintenance to implement the change at the OSG PKI and CILogon. CILogon will confirm the maintenance implementation and the proposed timeline. 
   5 OSG Security & Operations teams will provide the OK to proceed to OIM and CILogon developers. Proper change announcements will be sent to the OSG community regarding testing and deployment.
   6 OSG Operations will implement new change to production. 
   7 OSG Security and Operations will test to make sure the change was successfully deployed.  

---++ Non-Change Correspondence 

All changes will be tracked via the OSG Ticketing system at http://ticket.opensciencegrid.org. All direct email correspondence should be considered and noted in the subject as "Change Inquiry". 


-- Main.MineAltunay - 16 Nov 2015
