%META:TOPICINFO{author="MineAltunay" date="1277228879" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%

---++Meeting Minutes

*Igor*

--Igor will go to tennesse nashville

Anand; 
-- rsv release is done last tuesday. fixes ca and crl probes 
in index file : we have both numbers in and the actual file names. 
crl probe logic: how it tests for missing crls. detects which formats. and check its existence

no problems on vtb. 

Doug: rsv display output, which version of the probe is running. 

no explanation of what went wrong. Anand will link it in the output the main web site that explains the probes.

apt probes. Anand will think about it. 

pakiti is doen with installation. installing and more or less. 
how will we run pakiti? ssh is limited to ncsa. only pakiti servers. centos latest path of apache. 

Atlas does not want to run pakiti sites. need a cms list

Doug: 
ITB tests for probes

cert request renewals. trying to arrange groups. sponsors could post to the email list to confirm. this was they would nto have to send signed email. would sponsor signing into google with his email account secure enough? 

fnal server would use http cert authN we can use the fnal server

amazon ec2. to do some of our hosting. to perform registration part and ca monitor. 

voms shib id provider. did not look at glite voms server. looked at voms in vdt . decided it could work and needs code. 

have not submitted any job robots. ran manual tests agiants itb. 2-3  installed the new package. 
weigand will test voms server. ran simple tests agianst the itb tests. what is robot jobs . glexec testing. 

if robot jobs have been runinng on installed itb sites, then we can conclude it is working. 
none of the panda robot jobs are failing in itb. but doug will double check. should we close the project once we confirm robot jobs succeed. 
we wait all itb sites install ca packae and check if glexec runs on these sites and check voms server, then  tests are done. 
we are waiting sites to install in their normal test cycle. sites have to wait until they get the new vdt-ca-manage --itb. sites should get the itb version of the CAs. 

we link our trust roots from the the main ca request page. 
reply to hover's email. andburt's email. move the page ito the production










 




-- Main.MineAltunay - 22 Jun 2010
