%META:TOPICINFO{author="MineAltunay" date="1285695096" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%

---++ Meeting Minutes
-- top issue is the process breakdown during the last icnident. 
    why Jim did not pick it up. he is the operational lead. 
   we should have sent reminders for the sites who has been contacted during the incident 
    we should not trusted the site. how to force the sites to contact their security officers. 

shoudl ahve called Dave. put back burner. sites reporting. when we update the oim database. we can send a reminder.  

ask ken and jon bakken if the names are matching 


-- the 64 bit issue. monitor the patching sequence. what will we do with teh sites who has not patched yet. 
how many sites have applied the patch. Anand ran a job with kernel versions. 30 replied. 

what is our policy on applying the patch. at least a week for applying patch. 

should we woken up at 3 am because cern is 7 hours lead time. would goc be able to wake us up? do a test. 
sped another hour to go over issues. way to put incident responders to osg list. 
grid-sec list. why do not we use the incident discuss list. we need to let europeans know that security@opensciencegrid.org is the 24*7 
we have to inform them. 

talk more with Jim about operational work. top issues in egi. 

Documentation work. testing need to start. we are just about done with review. 


Anand: I want a table of rsv probe changes. what happened to vdt-ca manage change
if we cannot vdt-ca-manage in time, we will have to continue with older distribution style. 
vdt-update-certs need vdt support because a library is needed by other vdt code. 


Doug 

1.37 is out. why there is no symbolic link? 
Doug needs to put out a ca package. 

still we do not have a list of items from itb testing for the new layout. we have to understand when we switch in production and when things go wrong we will be on fire. we should switch progressively with most professional sites. 

we have to finish the documentation

igor: we have to look at the Alain's question on lsc files on 9/20



   






-- Main.MineAltunay - 28 Sep 2010
