%META:TOPICINFO{author="DougOlson" date="1250620449" format="1.1" reprev="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="SecurityTeamWorkingArea"}%
---++!! Certificate Revocation on Termination - Issues

%TOC%

When people are issued certificates from DOEGrids through the OSG RA
their initial registration is handled as a trusted third party process
within their virtual organization (VO).  Each VO has identified persons
acting as Agents with the authority to conduct the registration procedures
and issue the certificates.  The certificate itself does not identity
the person (or network service) as being a member of the VO.
Membership in the VO is handled through registration in the VOMS server
for that VO.  Whether or not a given VO has these two registration
processes integrated with each other or not is up to the VO.
In OSG different VOs have different practices in this regard.

In this process the VO has some responsibility for the certificates issued
by it's Agents.  Specifically, when the VO knows that a person is no longer
a member of the VO they can revoke the certificates issued to that person.
Because the membership in the VO is defined, at the technical level, by
entries in the VOMS server the consequences of NOT revoking a certificate
when a person leaves the VO are smaller that the consequences of not removing
their entries in the VOMS server.

Around OSG there are some web services (OIM, !DocDB) which perform
authentication and authorization based on certificates and no on VOMS
server entries.  For these services a person leaving a VO will still have
access even when their VOMS records have been removed unless
their certificate is also revoked.

We observe that there are many VOs around OSG that do not revoke a person's
certificate when they leave the VO.  And, because of the self-renewal feature
for personal certificates of the DOEGrids CA it is possible for a person to
maintain a valid certificate for some years after leaving a VO unless the certificate
is revoked.
How significant is this problem and how much effort is practical to change it?


-- Main.DougOlson - 18 Aug 2009
