%META:TOPICINFO{author="MineAltunay" date="1239204697" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WeeklySecurityMeetings03_16_2009"}%

---++Meeting Minutes
Present: Jim, Anand, Doug, Aashish and Mine

Aashish:
   * security challenge. ready to run the challenge. ran in Anand's testbed without problems. wrote two job wrappers to submit to condor-g. The test script is take from Sven's code, which was written against WMS. When should we make an announcement and finsih the drills. Earlier we said April 8-9-10.  
We decided to email the sites on 4/7 and start the drill on 4/8-9. Today, Aashish will run the test job against FNAL and BNL for test purposes. Aashish will post the evaluation criteria. FNAL requires voms-proxy and BNL does not. 
check with BNL and FNAL if tomorrow is allright. 

Anand: 
   * RSV probes are done. implemented the GUMS-VOMS handshake probe. The probe does not check whether handshake runs successfully. it checks the frequency of the handshake. the probe is written against the edg-mkgridmapfile.  
   * GUMS does not have the frequency probe. what does Jay's probe really implement? Mine should ask Jay about GUMS probe.
   * CA supported VO is completed. Arvind changed the RSV library. this was planned and needed for the RSV probes. Anand must change his probes to make sure the new library will work. Anand will complete the work by the end of the week.  

vdt-ca-manage. probably in Monday release. 

MITM attacks against GUMS. EGEE libraries and Jay opened a GGUs ticket. opened a ticket for edg-mkgridmap. 
if we are concerned about MITM , we should look at vdt-update-cert script. 
gLite rated it as low priority. Jim agrees. edg tries a ssl handshake. 
gums does authN. but not doing the authZ of VOMS server. 

Jim: 
DOEgrid identity mgmt workshop. whether it is OSG workshop or ESNet workshop. 
Ruth wants to have VO Registration policy. 11:30 tomorrow
software vulnerability process. we have no process for this. software vulnerability process document has been written and must be sent to Jim


Doug: 
robot certificates topic. related to RSV. RSV using service certificates. do we have a official policy? why is this special for RSV? 
hardware tokens are the only better solution. 

esnet gave the material to Doug. disaster recovery. Doug wants to learn my questions. some procedures. disaster recovery and recovery plan. meeting minutes . DOug will talk to Mike and set up the meeting. 


-- Main.MineAltunay - 08 Apr 2009