%META:TOPICINFO{author="MineAltunay" date="1310423303" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
---++ Short Meeting 
Mine and Anand have met to discuss security issues during Mine's absence. 

Anand's Summary from last week:

1. The DOEGrids CA cert has been tested in ITB and made into the production last week. With this OSG has switched to the IGTF 1.40. 

2. Made release of 1.20 (itb,itbnew,igtfold, and igtfnew) cache. This release includes the contents of IGTF v1.40. 

2. Met with Alain, Rob, Scott on Friday to discuss the changes to the cache. There are still some hicups with the GOC process, some of the symlinks were not properly installed on the new cache. We decided on final list and Scott is going to make changes to the deployment scripts at GOC. We will do one more test of the process and will release the cache to production during the next cycle (2 weeks from now)

Mine's update: At operations meeting on 7/11 Rob and Scott reported that they have currently no problems with the test of these caches in ITB. Production release date is set for July 26th. 
Anand had updated the documentation for making CA releases to the ITB according to the bugs found at this release. ine will follow the updated documentation and make a new ITB release which is identical to the production contents. the goal is to test our documentation and find out if there are any mistakes in teh process.  

3. Made changes to the RSV probes and vdt-ca-manage. Tested and released them to VDT on Friday. They should be released to the ITB this week. The changes in teh software will make it into the final pacman release of VDT software. 

4. I also collected a number of security controls. All the responses I have received are on twiki. I believe only couple are missing (Keith, Ruth and Alain Deximo). I will try to create a summary this week.

5. Was on vuln duty nothing interesting to report

6. Attended ITB meeting (https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Integration/MinutesITBJuly062011)





-- Main.MineAltunay - 11 Jul 2011
