%META:TOPICINFO{author="MineAltunay" date="1272994909" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
---++Meeting Minutes 05/04/2010 
Doug: check joint action plan discuss the cms document
Anand if the sponsor list is finished. when is official pakiti release
Igor NEBioGrid audit


No portals at all, ssh. user can run whichever executables they want. 

mm and gatekepeer the same node only because he does not believe hardware waste. static web servers. 

asked panda team to provide their infrastructure. 
ask ruth if we should do the panda review
 
Anand
release date not known for pakiti
more than halfway into it. should we just go to RA agents or do we have a list of the sponsors. we can multi-task . 
doug will generate the sponsor's name from the database. 

java v6 issue. do we have any existing java 5 vulnerability that is not patched. yes the last. java updates 1.5.0. 22 . 
i can see difference between 22 and 23 
it is not exact potentially untrustde objects. send in email. 
even if we pay for it, the patches cannot be release open source. 
Brian saidhe ran it with java 6 and he said it runs

Jgrid start tool works with myproxy but it is not useful. 

importing is much easier than exporting. mc -- double click on certificate and it imports. 
the tool can create the p12 file.  
experiment with windows how import will happen. 

we should customize the script for osg. 
command line does not have revocation. except that , all other functionalities are there
text based gui. very similar to what existing. step by step drop down menus. 

people do not know about the command line script. 
why would not SBgrid use command line tools. 
he can et users access to ssh node and then users can get tehir certificates from the command line.
 
doug: testing ITB ca distribution. checking wit john weigand. GOC has their ITB software cache. Doug made a CA distribution that includes teh new layout. 
installed at ITB cache. vdt-update-certs --itb. changes made to vdt-ca-manage with itb. 
talk to ITB folks o TH. cert-check-time and cert-check-crl and probes may complain. cert-check time will complain for CAs without CRLs. 
panda instance robot sends jobs. robot sends it to the persisten itb sites: FNAL_FERMIGRID_ITB  	 BNL_ITB_Test1 UC_ITB 	LBNL_DSD_ITB 	CIT_ITB_1 	LIGO_CIT 

rsv probes are probably on the ITB . Anad thinks RSV definitely will be effected. 
Doug needs to look at the code and identify which other programs might get affected. 

if all the services checked at ITB is crticial -- then we do nto need to do any manual checks. VOMS is not in ITB. 

what is tested in ITB get a list

CMS case: if you have an apache voms module, then it would work. igor says there is one. and why would cms and SBgrid is against using voms for web authentciation and authorization. Igor thinks voms-proxy would not work with browser. voms and gums are not designed to do web authentication. there needs t e some work to do that

Dhiva: Registration manager. he would put together VM. 
GOC is running the ESNet replica database and up and running. replicating the database would be the next step. 
do we need any UI? should there be any reporting interface. 
it would be wonderful if we can make reporting available to VOs and end users . user can understand who they sponsors are. if the agent picks a different sponsor , this is not updated in teh db. 
this is not cpatured at all by teh agent. when we get teh new Registration manager. 
sponsors are not effectively in teh database. they are only reflected by whatever the user is typed in. 

no new problematic agents. education requests multiple certs. who is pruning these requests. doug usually deletes them. 
after 30 days a request can be cancelled without cause. 

are the agents complying ? there is not an easy way to do this. we can individually checkw ith the RA agent. 











-- Main.MineAltunay - 04 May 2010
