%META:TOPICINFO{author="MineAltunay" date="1258482942" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WeeklySecurityMeetings03_16_2009"}%

Ron: which ones are expiring. what did we do with updated security plan. 

anand: ca debian package. needed doug's help. solved. 
          make debian step. we may need some new code rewritten. assumptions for vdt needs to be changed. anand needs to write a quite a bit of code for make debian. 1 week worth of week. think of the new platform. apt repository needs to be handled by GOC. 
          cron should be in init.d . should there be a problem having them in both? 
          rsv status reports and linking definitions 
          replicating the doegrids database. requests and certificates and revocations. 2 things needed: separate database from update script, 2 move over to a production area. convert vm image to xen and kvm. where should we run this service at goc. what kind of vm ware goc has ? datbase can run on arbitrary system. scripts are more flaky. how can we access the scripts? directly accessing the replicate database is needed for monitoring. a couple hundred of requests  
          Anand is not needed to help
 
Doug: postmortem questions. fermi kca switch off. 
          voms have already switched. 
Igor: pacman signatures have not checked. bestman security architecture. caching of gums mapping. bestman will ask once and then cache it everyone. 
        pem p12 conversion. change the documentation. ask basney and if myproxy client will handle the p12 file. ask weichel to coordinate it. check voms-proxy-grid-proxy myproxy 

Jim : ticket for blosgspot has not updated
        asked for who viewed the tickets
        t3 call. pick an unresponsive site and slow for kernel updates 
        top things every good site admins need to do. a list of good things to do. 
        go through the drill. 
        close the open tickets. 
        Kernel explot is not in the wild. there is a proof of concept. tls renegotiation does not affect us. we sent out annoncements for both vulnerabilities. 
Anand is on vulnerability watch list. 

        



            

doegrid monitoring project finish

igor. p12 pem conversion            



-- Main.MineAltunay - 17 Nov 2009