%META:TOPICINFO{author="MineAltunay" date="1264531163" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WeeklySecurityMeetings03_16_2009"}%

ucsd, fnal, nebraska and sprace brazil. . the push is for tier2 now. tier2 installed the script but never tested. only lab that wants the glexec is fermilab. cms does not expect 

gums  v1.3 and gums 1.4 . vdt 
we should send an update and announcement. site should do an update when they are ready to update. 
Igor will work on the announcement and talk to Rob. 

dcache acl thing we never really ask Burt

Doug: doe grid agents tomorrow. last meeting with the agents. 30 agents so far. people didnot have questions. instructions are reasonable. Doug picked two certificates per agent. 
put it on the twiki. GOC figured out how to wrk out with the image. 
the change in the openssl distribution package. we need to figure out the structure in our ca bundle process. vdt-ca-manage have to be changed too. 
Jim should sen dout the announcement to sites not to update. 

Anand: compare against some test sites. pick pilot test sites. ask if they are ready to test or not. redhat oval definition. we should run manually for synch up. star with Tier3 OS types. 
we should ask facility. email Catalin and compare results. email Dan to set up a meeting.invite tier3 coordinator.  

rsv probe is optional. the new probe name is expiry probe. ask Arvind if changing probe name is possible. 
what about having CRL central distribution. central distribution will be the primary point. some ca cannot handle high volume. original ca address is the last resort.  
if our location is not proper go back to ca web site. 
what if the code changes from fetch-crl distribution. 

what happens if we put the ca certificates into operating systems. mozilla and microsoft. very stringent legal requirement. costly. there is no distinguish between service and user certs for root certs. essentially we do that forthe web browsers. but now openning up to a wider audience. 





-- Main.MineAltunay - 26 Jan 2010