%META:TOPICINFO{author="MineAltunay" date="1221002479" format="1.1" reprev="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="SecurityTeamWorkingArea"}%
---++ Project Planning Template 

   1.	The project definition & problem statement
   2.	The goals of the project: (Please list the goals as bullet point items)
   3.	Scope of the project: If your goals are a subset of the problem you described above, your project is not solving the entire problem, which is fine. Just tell us which parts you are going to solve.  
   4.	The project Lead, co-leads and support: (This is also listed in WBS)
   5.	The deliverables from the project: (bullet point list of documents, executables, etc..)
   6.	Level of effort. (how many FTE for how many days). Do you need extra help to accomplish your goals, if so why? 
   7.	Project start and end date according to #6. If you do not get the extra effort, do you have another start and end date.  
   8.	Project implementation Plan: Description of each step needed to be taken to get the defined goals and deliverables. These steps do not have to be very detailed but they have to tell us each important phase of the project. Who will perform each step, which institution? When? And if that step produces any deliverables?  
   9.	Dependencies/ Risks: any dependencies (such as a person other than support or co-lead listed below) that can delay your work. For example if you need operations team to help you to implement a step, please state it here. What is our worst case plan, assuming dependency is not resolved or the other team cannot help? Is there an alternate step?
   10.  Resources Needed: list all resources you will need for the completion of the project. This could be really anything? An SVN repository up and running, access to a database? Anything you will need as a tool to accomplish your goal
   11.	Who will get affected (perhaps in a negative way) by your project. When will you (refer to steps in #8) inform these parties. E.g. let’s say our   project is changing our comm. channels during the incident response. This project will affect site admins, GOC staff, security staff, EB, and our partner grids. The effect may require the effected parties to do more work or change the way they work. Thus, we have to identify this people and inform them.
   12.	Performance metrics.   How will you measure the project success? Any metrics. 
   13.	Monitoring project progress. Which steps (in #8) you use as checkpoints/milestones? At the checkpoints, the security team will evaluate the project progress and existing deliverables up until that point.    
   14.	Project closure: when and who will decide the project is completed. What are the requirements and processes to mark this project as complete? E.g. if you develop code, you should hand this off to VDT team or ITB before closing the project, or maybe you will also join the testing process and then close the project.  


-- Main.MineAltunay - 09 Sep 2008
