%META:TOPICINFO{author="KevinHill" date="1370530939" format="1.1" version="1.2"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="MeetingMinutes2009"}%
---++ Meeting Minutes

*Jim Barlow*
   * Worried about kernel attack. no workaround is effective. rewritten exploit is on both 32 and 64 and exploiting kernel, not network
module. 
   * Two clusters at TeraGrid are rooted and disabled for access for 16 hours. Attacks were coming from berkeley physics lab. The attacker cleaned logs. Attack vector was ssh. Jim Mallendir is a responder at lbnl. The compromised lbnl machine is an itb cluster at lbnl. 
   * when should Barlow visit fermilab
   * New vulnerability announcement. cve 1895 2848 1883 2847 kernel vulnerabilities . no known exploit for these vulnerabilities. redhat says important security impact.

Drill: should we run on florida site? yes. 15 sites for next week.

Doug: who reads the ticket announcements. send n email to goc to
tracker. call Miron. send the invitations. ask christoph if anyone from
switch should come.

Igor is on vulnerbility watch.
have not seen anything interesting yet.
VO package: Igor has finished  the merge code for edg-mkgridmap file. he
has trouble with gums 1.1 , 1.2 and 1.3 mergeing code. gums 1.4 has the
merging capability. how many people uses gums 1.1-1.3 , we cannot get it
from GIP. can we run a special job? no it would not answer? can we see
if our sites are really out of synch by looking at gridmap files. if
most people are in sych, then we can wait unil they upgrade to 1.4. VDT
does not include 1.4. They should Ask Alain. when will edg get into VDT.
Igor gave the code to GOC. they wll work out a schedule. gums 1.1. is
very different from 1.2. You can ask directly at tg-security to people
who uses which gums version. or ask Ken Bloom and Rob Gardner for tier 2s.


Jim : jspg. finishing revision of set of policies. looking into egi.
dropping J , from jspg. policy synch across egi. aup and site
registration policy. jim will send the smmary. change the VO-oriented
manner from aup. site regitration policy was very old. revised to match
with vo registration policy.
revised policy match osg fine
eugridpma; presented th crl problems. always have a operations session.
have each ca explain.
terena ca provides all european person certificate. ased on national
shibboleth federations. whether thi puts existing cas out of business.
terena ca get accrideted.

JIm basney to Doug transition. Doug will be responsible for eugridpma.



-- Main.MineAltunay - 06 Oct 2009