%META:TOPICINFO{author="KyleGross" date="1225985954" format="1.1" version="1.3"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="CreateNewReport"}%
<!-- Complete the template. You can either use TWiki style, copy in plain text, or put in HTML. -->
<!-- IF COPYING IN HTML: Please only include the sections between your BODY tags. -->

---+!! 2007Q2 PI Quarterly Report 

%STARTINCLUDE%

---++  <nop> BNL
%EDITTHIS%
<!-- EDIT BELOW THIS LINE ONLY! -->

During Q2 2007 OSG work continued to proceed with an incomplete manpower contingent as we continued to work on OSG hires.
Two requisitions were outstanding throughout the quarter. During the quarter two candidates were identified and interviews
arranged. Interviews took place in June for one candidate, Maxim Potekhin. He was offered the position and accepted, with
a start date of July 15 2007. Another promising candidate will be interviewed at the beginning of August. In the absence
of these dedicated BNL staff hires, work continued using UTA student short-term hires (Barnett Chiu, Umeshkumar Keswani)
and ATLAS-funded manpower (Torre Wenaus).

Important progress was made during the quarter on the schedd glidein that is our first principal deliverable in our
collaboration with Condor on Panda-Condor integration. Implementation at BNL was completed during the quarter, relying
heavily on frequent correspondence with and support from the Condor team at Madison, as well as BNL's own Condor
experts and systems support personnel in the RACF facility. By the end of the quarter the work had shifted from
implementing the schedd glidein as a new variant of Condor's glidein support, to applying it as the basis for a
Panda pilot factory. As a pilot factory it will enable moving pilot submission inside the perimeter of a site, thus
avoiding the scalability bottleneck of pilots going through the GK GRAM, while retaining centralized grid control of
the local pilot factory submission through the glidein mechanism.

The CHARMM VirtualOrganizations/VOInfo that has been utilizing Panda for production running of protein folding calculations using the CHARMM
application reported that during the quarter their Panda-based production achieved stable operation and by mid-quarter
they were able to run stably with very little operator intervention. They have steadily accumulated data
that is expected to soon be the basis of a science result. They report they are happy with Panda as the basis of their
grid based production and they plan to continue with it. BNL continued to support their operations, and provided the
Panda systems and monitoring services used by CHARMM.

Based on the successful CHARMM experience, and the Panda customizations and improvements the CHARMM effort drove, 
Panda now has a demonstrated capability to support grid production by OSG VOs other than ATLAS. Minimal subsets of
the Panda code base are required to be picked up and used by the VO, such that the VirtualOrganizations/VOInfo can integrate Panda job
submission into their workflow scripts, and run their own Panda pilot submissions (using machines and services
provided by BNL,OSG) such that they 'own' their own pilots for accounting and security purposes. We can
accordingly declare as complete the 6/1/07 milestone of delivering production deployment of experiment-neutral
Panda as a supported general OSG service. We are inviting other small VOs to follow CHARMM's route of trying Panda as
the basis of their grid production.

BNL efforts played a major role in the successful June 15 milestone validating the OSG infrastructure for ATLAS
production. BNL ATLAS-supported manpower provided extensions to the Panda infrastructure that now permit
non-ATLAS OSG resources to be used opportunistically for ATLAS production. This capability was demonstrated
before the milestone, and a first opportunistic site brought into deployment. Next year's ATLAS science milestones
for OSG will include an expanded milestone for validating production capability at opportunistic OSG sites.

In light of the delays in ramping up the BNL OSG extensions manpower we extended the year 1 SOW to incorporate
support also for the BNL RACF effort in readying GUMS for VDT releases by supporting BNL contributions to
required GUMS deliverables (1 FTE). Our objective was to ensure the readiness of GUMS 1.2 for VDT release inclusion, and
this was achieved. Delivered features completing the June 1.2 release requirements were
   *   Add SSL client-side security to the GUMS LDAP connection.
   * Configuration Management
      1. Edit system configuration from Web GUI
      2. Validate any configuration changes
      3. Increase flexibility/reduce redundancy in configuration file.
      4. Add configuration functionality to command line admin client.
      5. List contents/status of current configuration.
   * Read-only user groups -- this is necessary to support glexec on worker nodes without host certificates. A service DN would be added to the read-only group. This service proxy would be used to make the mapping callout from glExec.
   * Much better error handling/reporting. No exception stack traces should ever reach the Tomcat layer from the Web GUI--they should all be caught, analyzed, and generate an informative error message.

In  addition, the following additional features were included
   *   Completion and documentation of the LDAP persistence factory: Instead of using a local database to store info, GUMS can now store it directly in a site LDAP system.
   * Added flexibility to the LDAPAccountMapper to allow (among other things) sites to customize what tree in LDAP gets used.
   * Diagnostic Summary page to assist in configuration and troubleshooting.
   * Backup history of configurations. Old configurations can be re-loaded.
   * Additional type of gridmap-file generation oriented toward import into dCache.



%STOPINCLUDE%



%META:TOPICMOVED{by="ForrestChristian" date="1173993132" from="Sandbox.WebTopicTemplateTesting" to="OSGReports.TemplateForReports"}%
