%META:TOPICINFO{author="KyleGross" date="1497450632" format="1.1" version="1.3"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="CreateNewReport"}%
<!-- Complete the template. You can either use TWiki style, copy in plain text, or put in HTML. -->
<!-- IF COPYING IN HTML: Please only include the sections between your BODY tags. -->

---+!! 2007Q3 PI Quarterly Report 

%STARTINCLUDE%

---++  <nop> BNL
%EDITTHIS%
<!-- EDIT BELOW THIS LINE ONLY! -->

BNL OSG quarterly report for the period July-September 2007:

During this period the PanDA WMS system continued its operation as a supported WMS service for OSG, utilized by a biology team employing the CHARMM code for protein folding simulation. They reported good results and ease of use in leveraging the OSG grid through the use of PanDA, informing us in September that "CHARMM is running beautifully on the grid". A scientific paper reporting results obtained on the OSG grid is expected from them soon.

Important progress was made on the primary deliverable of the first phase of the OSG just-in-time WMS integration program, an extension of Condor's glide-in functionality to support schedd as well as startd glide-ins as the basis for a site-local 'pilot factory', as agreed in an OSG WMS meeting at UCSD in March. The extension of the glide-in functionality to support schedd as well as startd was completed, and the work passed to applying the schedd glide-in as the carrier for a pilot factory. With the completion of the schedd glide-in we have the ability to use Condor to submit to a head node at a site a schedd instance that can then manage the execution of a persistent service at the site that submits pilot jobs to queues local to the site, removing the load of pilot submission from the site's gatekeeper while retaining the ability to manage pilot scheduling globally via Condor and grid services rather than at the site level. Initial application of the pilot factory will be submission of PanDA pilots at sites willing to serve as early adopters/evaluators of the system (BNL and UT Arlington).

Maxim Potekhin joined the BNL OSG extensions effort on a full-time basis in July, as Deputy (to Torre Wenaus) Applications Area Coordinator, and as a participant in the extensions program. He will lead the just-in-time WMS program. With this boost to the effort we were able to initiate work with the glideinWMS system from CMS/FNAL, targeted with PanDA as a component of the OSG WMS toolkit and service infrastructure, and as a potential pilot delivery mechanism for PanDA. A testbed was installed and brought into operation at BNL. With the assistance of the glideinWMS developer Igor Sfiligoi who visited BNL in September, glideinWMS was used for successful PanDA pilot submission and job dispatch. Issues to be addressed in enabling glideinWMS as a production PanDA pilot submitter were identified, principally the propagation of the user proxy to the WN for glexec use (glexec being available through startd's support for it) and the integration of pilot functionality into the startd itself, a start at which was made in October 2006 when Barnett Chiu visited the Condor team and worked on this.

We also began to integrate security measures required to thoroughly secure PanDA jobs and job payloads for execution at OSG and other sites. We initiated an effort to integrate the CMS/FNAL (Igor Sfiligoi) developed system for transmitting signed, secure payloads to pilot jobs in order to secure PanDA pilots and job payloads. We also began an evaluation to identify a secure and manageable means of transmitting user proxies from job submission at the client through to the worker node, for glexec use on the worker node; principal elements of the solution are likely to be !MyProxy and GUMS.

With Maxim joining the group we were able to increase our involvement in user support. Maxim is now a regular participant in OSG Users Meetings and works with Chris and Abhishek to cover general user support issues as well as specific BNL user support responsibilities, which include CHARMM and STAR.

On the GUMS front, we've been doing ongoing GUMS fixes (we're now at 1.2.13) which get immediately released to VDT, and eventually make their way to the OSG caches. Examples of recent fixes include:
   * if you wrote to the config file too many times in a row, it would hang the DB connection.
   * added script to allow users to automatically download the OSG gums.template
   * VDT added a script we supplied to the path, which makes it easier for end users to run the admin commands.

We have also done a great deal of work on GUMS documentation on the OSG Twiki. This followed a formal request by Rob Gardner as part of OSG's recent "get documentation into a useful state" effort.

We're also now developing a generic site-level host certificate
monitoring and renewal system called Certify. This involved a great deal
of coordination, debate, and design effort with the OSG and DOEgrids
security folks (Mine Althunay, Doug Olson, Mike Helm, Bob Cowles). This
system is desperately needed by BNL to handle the increasing number of
systems with host certs, and the intention is to release the final
version to OSG for use at other sites.

The quarter closed with the finalization of a further hire for the BNL OSG extensions program. Jose Caballero, with previous experience working on CMS Data Challenge production on the grid in Spain, will join the BNL team in November or December.




%STOPINCLUDE%



%META:TOPICMOVED{by="ForrestChristian" date="1173993132" from="Sandbox.WebTopicTemplateTesting" to="OSGReports.TemplateForReports"}%
