%META:TOPICINFO{author="KyleGross" date="1225985954" format="1.1" version="1.6"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="CreateNewReport"}%
<!-- Complete the template. You can either use TWiki style, copy in plain text, or put in HTML. -->
<!-- IF COPYING IN HTML: Please only include the sections between your BODY tags. -->

---+!! 2007Q4 PI Quarterly Report 

%STARTINCLUDE%

---++  <nop> Fermilab
%EDITTHIS%
<!-- EDIT BELOW THIS LINE ONLY! -->

_External Communication:_ OSG was present at the Digital Divide meeting in Mexico City in November, and contact was established between the Engagement activity and local researchers interested in adapting applications to run on a distributed infrastructure. The institutes in Mexico aim to organize themselves for a regional grid and OSG will be prepared to help facility and educate in these areas. Discussions at the NSF International Research Network Collaborations (IRNC) about the relevance of middleware to the end to end performance of data distribution and job execution over diverse networks were relevant and useful.

The status of the common middleware, VDT and WLCG baseline services in the US, as well as the status and plans for the US Tier-2s were presented at the LHC Comprehensive Review. The reviewers seemed satisfied with the information and there were no significant questions. The reviewers report has not yet been published.

The iSGTW advisory board met at CERN. Cristy Burne has agreed to remain as iSGTW editor for another six-twelve months.  The EGEE has been allocated one additional FTE to work on communications and iSGTW activities as part of a GridTalk project funded by the EU through the GridPP project. This is in addition to the half-FTE each that EGEE and OSG contribute to the iSGTW editor position.  OSG management is currently unable to increase the contributions in this area.  

The Executive Director and PI visited NSF MPS Division for a day and have a list of action items and deliverables with respect to new communities to contact about potential engagement.  

_Users Support:_ During this quarter, the VirtualOrganizations/VOInfo-centric site testing kit obtained its final remaining planned features: a timeout facility for fork jobs and the ability to specify site selection criteria based on combinations of tests results to allow (for instance) compilation of lists of failing sites for GOC tickets. Work continued on general user support including liaison with the OSG Security Officer on security requirements for VOs; issues arising out of increasing uptake of the 0.8.0 software stack across the OSG; and low-level PANDA / MPI work with the CHARMM group and volunteer sites. Ongoing issues that are being addressed include technical and social difficulties involved in propagating VirtualOrganizations/VOInfoMS server location changes across OSG sites; this has been raised with GOC and the site coordination team and proactive and reactive mitigation measures are being considered and implemented. OSG VirtualOrganizations/VOInfo policy and procedure documents are being written to codify and improve practices to keep pace with increase in membership of and site support requirements.  

_Security:_ We completed implementing the year1 plan, during which we collected useful feedback from our stakeholders and members. We will incorporate this input into our year2 plan. We have already set up regular meetings with VOs and sites to involve them with the ongoing revision process. We work with our external project and software providers to develop grid health monitoring and incident containment tools. Due to the grid&#8217;s distributed nature and number of members, health monitoring is a challenging task; containing an identified incident is even more so due to the manual human intervention needed currently.  None of the present off-the-shelf products meets the grid&#8217;s high-scale requirements. Work in this area not only benefits our operational security but also contributes to security research. Providing easy-to-use security management tools is another initiative. These tools aim to help naïve user/VirtualOrganizations/VOInfo/Site managing its security configuration and policies.

_Storage:_ To meet the needs of our stakeholders we are currently focusing mainly on extensions needed for full SRM v2.2 deployment and support. We have developed a site configuration procedure to allow space reservations for opportunistic use, and enhanced the capability of SRM-dCache to reuse space from expired reservations. In the area of monitoring, we prepared the GRATIA probes for deployment. To display available space, <nop>BeStMan is also in the process of being extended to provide transfer and storage information in the same common Open Grid Forum standard. We enhanced SRM-dCache with a new capability for role-based authorization and started work on the same for <nop>BeStMan in Q12008. In the tools effort, we developed a python library for accessing SEs administratively, and have offered an initial set of tools 

_Project and Resource Management:_  We processed the final year1 WBS updates to close out the year1 work program; all incomplete WBS milestones were examined critically to determine a disposition (complete, cancel, or carry-forward to year2) and these plans were reviewed and approved by the OSG Executive Team.  A full year1 status of finances and work completion was presented at the November 2, 2007 Finance Board; this body accepted the recommendations and commended the process improvements achieved in year1.

The year2 planning process was pushed forward to being essentially complete.  All Statements-of-Work (SOW) were prepared to document the work to be performed at the seventeen institutions during year2; greater than 75% of these SOWs completed our internal review process by Nov 15 to meet the planned goal.  The year2 WBS was base-lined and the year2 budget was finalized and approved by the OSG-EB.   And logistical preparation for the OSG Annual Review (scheduled for Jan 22, 23) was completed.

_User Communication:_ Effort on OSG Communications was deployed toward analysis and update of the OSG website to improve navigation and ease of use.  Monthly OSG newsletters were produced and distributed.  FNAL personnel contributed two articles to iSGTW highlighting research and resources on OSG covering CHARMM and Fermigrid.  The Campus CI days website was made ready for publication. We participated in the NYSGrid CI days event to strengthen the NYSGrid-OSG partnership and to assess further interest in CI activities and in OSG from other New York campuses. A poster was presented at the annual e-social science conference to introduce this new audience to OSG. We assisted the Integration activity with Release Documentation reorganization and update for OSG release 0.8.0.  The Documentation home page was also reviewed and updated.  



%STOPINCLUDE%