%META:TOPICINFO{author="KentBlackburn" date="1176253718" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="CreateNewReport"}%
---+!! 2007Q1 PI Quarterly Report 
%STARTINCLUDE%
---++  <nop>
%EDITTHIS%
<!-- EDIT BELOW THIS LINE ONLY! -->

Caltech completed its first milestone to be able to run continuously for one week at on the UCSD cluster using 25 or more batch slots in mid January, roughly a week ahead of schedule. This was accomplished with help from Pegasus developers at USC-ISI, the cluster administrators at UCSD and the OSG Applications Coordinator Frank Wurthwein.

Caltech also completed it second milestone to be able to run contuously for one week using multiple OSG sites with a sustained load of 100 or more batch slots in mid February, rougly four months ahead of schedule and with an average load of nearly twice the required level. Seven OSG sites were typically involved in reaching this throughput. In the process many minor issues with Condor, and Pegasus were identified and reported to the developers leading to improved versions for the OSG software stack.

Caltech has now hired one of the two staff members to replace outgoing staff. This position was for the applications development activity and has been filled by Britta Daudert. Interviews are underway for the second staff position.

We have been working closely with the Pegasus workflow planner to implement smarter data management, specifically cleanup of data as soon as possible after it has gone out of scope within the workflow to enable LIGO's binary inspiral search codes to run on smaller OSG sites with less disks space than the rather large startup dataset employed in meeting the first two milestones. This would greatly improve the odds of reaching the milestone requiring a peak usage of 1000 batch slots scheduled for later this year. It is unlikely that this milestone would be met without being able to utilize the large number of smaller (storage) sites available to the OSG. Unfortunately, the binary inspiral workflows don't lend themselves well to this new technology as a result of organizational dependencies assigned by the binary inspiral developers. We are meeting with these developers to see if an enhancement is possible that would allow data cleanup to be more effective. We have also worked with the Pegasus developers to post-process the binary inspiral DAX to re-organize these dependencies in such a way as to allow better use of limited disk space. This has been very successful with the unfortunate side-effect of increasing the run time for the workflows by a factor of two or three. Investigations into how to improve this and how to reach the 1000 batch slot peak milestone are underway.


%STOPINCLUDE%