%META:TOPICINFO{author="KyleGross" date="1497450632" format="1.1" version="1.3"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="CreateNewReport"}%
<!-- Complete the template. You can either use TWiki style, copy in plain text, or put in HTML. -->
<!-- IF COPYING IN HTML: Please only include the sections between your BODY tags. -->

---+!! 2007Q3 PI Quarterly Report 

%STARTINCLUDE%

---++  <nop>University of Florida
%EDITTHIS%
<!-- EDIT BELOW THIS LINE ONLY! -->

					OSG-EOT Activities Report
				    	    University of Florida

The following presents the monthly activities carried out at the University Of Florida towards OSG Education outreach and training for the period from July 1, 2007 to September 30, 2007.

July 2007

A new graduate student Siddhartha Eluppai Srivatsan who was employed in the end of June began his work in July. Since Siddhartha had not taken any courses, he put in 30-40 man hours per week during this period. Since he had  no prior cluster administration experience, Siddhartha was given some cluster administration training during the initial week. In the following week he was given a bird's eye view of what the Open Science Grid was, with special emphasis on how to install and configure the compute element of a cluster that was going to be grid-enabled. This was followed by a practical installation of OSG 0.6.0 on a test system. He was also asked to explore and understand the process of submitting jobs to the Condor and PBS batch systems, which he also completed successfully.

August 2007

During the last week of July and the first week of August, Siddhartha attended an OSG site administrators meeting at Fermilab. He also attended an all day OSG-DOCS meeting. During this time it was decided that Siddhartha would concentrate on a grid site-administrator tutorial, using as a starting point a quick install guide prepared by Anne Heavy of Fermilab. Also it was decided that the entire site administrator tutorial would be divided into two phases. The first phase would be to put together a very simple tutorial that involves Pacman, Condor and OSG0.6.0 installation and configuration and grid-mapfiles to create a simple grid. The  work carried out by the student in the month of july would be leveraged for the purpose of completing this phase.

In the following week, a command handout that listed the set of commands to be used and a power point presentation that explained what the install sought to achieve by pointing to various sections of the command handout was prepared. This was presented to a small group of students from South Africa at the University of Chicago. The presentation was given by Siddhartha and the practical sessions were carried out under the guidance of Ben Clifford. The students were able to install OSG compute elements on their laptops and submit small jobs to each other. Then Siddhartha also was exposed to the computing infrastructure available at Fermilab. A suggestion was made by Ben Clifford to include the sample outputs of each command  during the install. 

Next week Siddhartha was appointed a research assistant and plans for the next phase began. One of the major problems pointed out in the OSG-DOCS meeting was the huge hardware requirements a full blown site-administrator tutorial would place on the conductors. A way around this was suggested by Dr Mike Wilde of the University of Chicago. It was to use virtual machines. 

Note that the fall semester began in this period and the student had to reduce the man hours to 20 hours a week.


September 2007

Following Mike Wilde's suggestion User Mode Linux (UML) was the VM chosen. Simple tasks such as instantiating UML instances inside an already executing Linux kernel, checking how modifications could be made to the UML file system and kernel were studied. Also a method of connecting the guest UML to the internet by making the host as a router was also carried out. A new DELL D830 series laptop was bought for this purpose. All the above experiments were carried out in this new system.

By the end of the month the following course of action was decided upon: (1) install and test Condor inside the UML instance, followed by setting up of a DNS; (2) install NFS and test it; (3) carry out a CE install in the shared Filesystem and instead of traditional gridmap file it is planned to migrate to GUMS running on a separate virtual machine. This setup if successful could be deployed on laptops on training session using simple scripts and could give a feel of how actually things could be done on a real cluster.

Notes:

1.	Siddhartha Eluppai Srivatsan is directly supervised by Dr Craig Prescott (UF HPC Center) in carrying out this work and also reports to Paul Avery.

2.	Siddhartha is currently working as a 0.5 FTE student graduate research assistant.



%STOPINCLUDE%

%META:TOPICMOVED{by="ForrestChristian" date="1173993132" from="Sandbox.WebTopicTemplateTesting" to="OSGReports.TemplateForReports"}%
