%META:TOPICINFO{author="ElizabethChism" date="1282327628" format="1.1" version="1.7"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="MyEGEE"}%


*MyOSG Adopted by EGEE*

At EGEE ’09 in Barcelona, the EGEE SAM group based at CERN announced 
the adoption of the !MyOSG presentation framework for MyEGEE. EGEE 
(European Grids for E-Science ) is Europe's leading grid computing project, 
providing a computing support infrastructure for over 10,000 researchers 
world-wide. While the work on the !MyOSG project was contributed by
Indiana University and The Open Science Grid (OSG). The OSG is a US 
based distributed computing grid for data-intensive research comprised of 
more than 65 collaborating research and educational institutions in North and 
South America.

!MyOSG (myosg.grid.iu.edu), developed at Indiana University, is an 
information consolidation and presentation web tool used to create 
custom user views from several OSG data sources. These include 
information data such as BDII and GIP Validation, monitoring data gathered 
by Resource and Service Validation (RSV) Probes, accounting data from 
Gratia, and administrative data from the OSG Information Management 
(OIM) database.  

The idea for !MyOSG came from listening to the OSG Community during 
face-to-face meetings. "Many OSG Resource Providers were telling us
there were too many different websites to visit to keep track of their 
Resource status." says Rob Quick, the Operations Coordinator for 
the OSG. "We needed a service to consolidate OSG information."
These included separate addresses for accounting, health, and 
information used for job level decision making, and information validation, 
plus other Virtual Organization contributed dashboards.

"While we were planning !MyOSG, we realized there was another 
fundamental problem with existing information presentation services
and dashboards, they gave you views of all of OSG, and there were 
as many different responsibility sets as there were people in the OSG."
continues Rob. "When an OSG collaborator told me the history of 
Grid Monitoring was littered with thrown away dashboard projects, I
knew we had to think of a different approach." 

!MyOSG selection criteria allow each user to have a unique view of 
content gathered from multiple sources within OSG. It also allows 
export into a generic widget format (UWA) to personalized workflow 
environments such as iGoogle, !NetVibes, and other widget viewers 
including mobile devices.

Soichi Hayashi the primary developer of !MyOSG commented on the approach taken by the development team and the UWA technology. "Although UWA is not as actively developed as it was about an year ago, it allows us to provide !MyOSG content to wide range of users without having to support them individually. Most recently, the GOC infrastructure team is working to provide a simplified version of MyOSG content that can be displayed on personal portals and more importantly, various hand-held devices through their web browsers. GOC believes that this approach works better than using UWA alone because most of the content that we provide through UWA does not require a complex user interface, it is faster, and can be consumed by more portals and hand-held devices." Soichi was assisted in planning and development by Arvind Gopu.

After collaborating with EGEE as a peering grid and participating in
interoperability monitoring groups to meet the Worldwide LCG 
requirements, it was decided that EGEE would adopt !MyOSG. "We 
adopted a standardized messaging format from EGEE based on 
this collaboration, now they are adopting a presentation layer from us."

EGEE prototyped MyEGEE along with updates to their overall Service 
Availability Monitoring (SAM) infrastructure update that also 
consists of Nagios monitoring components. A SAM presentation can be 
seen at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PADq2x8q0kw.

James Casey from the EGEE project said “We’ve worked a long time with the OSG Operations Team on monitoring their their resources and making sure all the results are interoperable for our major customers like WLCG.  This means that !MyOSG is a natural fit into our environment and has required little tailoring to work in the EGEE environment.  Getting visualization tools working right and looking good is always the hardest part of any monitoring project.  When we saw the high-quality work already done on !MyOSG we knew it was the best way for us to go."

Please send questions about the !MyOSG software to the Grid Operations 
Center at Indiana University. goc@opensciencegrid.org 
<mailto:goc@opensciencegrid.org>

-- Main.RobQ - 27 Oct 2009