%META:TOPICINFO{author="RobQ" date="1281123682" format="1.1" reprev="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="ServiceLevelAgreements"}%
---++ Review of FNAL SLA

---+++ SLA Structure and Language

Do we want to mush together the Gratia SLA and the "everything else" SLA?  Does the SLA, as written, reflect the fact Gratia is more important than the OSG VOMS?

The SLA uses the word "clients".  Can we clarify who this is?


---+++ Metrics 

Provide metrics, viewable by OSG, that address whether the service availability goals are being met; details to be worked out with the OSG Operations Coordinator. 

If the service availability goals are not being met, then commit to undertake RCA and reach joint agreement with OSG on action plans designed to improve the service availability. 

When do we declare the "service availability goals not met", and who measures availability?  I would prefer that the status is forwarded to GOC and we use the same calculator for FermiGrid services as all other OSG services. I would suggest we only do a RCA if the service availability goals were not met for 2 weeks in a 8 week period.
 
Service Availability Goals, I think we need a clear definition of what Availability includes and possibly split this up into a few different metrics. Reporting UI Uptime, hours of record insertion behind current time, records being processed (current metric checked by RSV).

For this sentence: "The FermiGrid Services Group shall perform automated monitoring of the above services and shall measure the OSG services availability through the existing FermiGrid service monitoring infrastructure". We have poor visibility to the metrics FermiGrid uses - is it possible to write something about forwarding monitoring status to the OSG GOC via RSV?

---+++ Service Outages and Degradations 

While there is a 8-5 CDT Outage response defined there is no escalation for unresolved issues or mentions of degraded service. Example, each 4 hours an issue moves up the chain of command... Both escalation and service degradation impact are addressed in our SLAs with a "Service Target Response Priorities and Response Times" table. We've dealt mostly with service degradation to this point with Gratia so merely have Outage definitions is insufficient. 

I'm worried about this: "clients shall utilize the Computing Division Service Desk procedures to notify the on-call personnel in the FermiGrid Services Group support rotation."  We should clarify that the OSG will be using the service desk through GOC, which will forward this on to FG via the Ticket exchange. 

An additional comment related to the sentence: "The FermiGrid Services Group shall perform automated monitoring of the above services and shall measure the OSG services availability through the existing FermiGrid service monitoring infrastructure". Could we add something about setting appropriate alarms (e.g. When the collector is receiving more data than it is processing for a period of time exceeding xx hours?) and then notifying the OSG Operations coordinator when certain (TBD) alarms go off. 

Could there also be something about adding new alarms when OSG and FG agree they are needed. 

---+++ Community Notification

Notification of all planned outages and maintenance windows to be provide to OSG Operations; a week before seems reasonable.  And GOC will distribute these to OSG stakeholders via email. 

There are references to internal FNAL procedures but not OSG procedures for Community Notification and contact points. We need to point OSG Customers at the OSG Ticket instance not at the FNAL Helpdesk. There is also a maintenance line "...as far in advance of the proposed maintenance period as is possible." This is just too uncertain of a statement. We have used "Alert the community of scheduled maintenance periods at least five business days prior to the start of a service affecting maintenance window." in the OSG SLAs. I'm not as concerned of the time period as that we have some firm statement. 

One final statement that concerns me... "Any service that is maintained in a High-Availability (HA) configuration may have maintenance performed on the service, providing that a redundant copy of the service remains available while the maintenance is performed. " While I'm OK with this it still needs proper announcement and scheduling. The way it's worded sounds as if there is free reign to do whatever they want with the redundant service. When there is a single point of failure we should let the community know there is added risk.

Notification of all unplanned outages and abnormal conditions to be provided to OSG Operations; within 1 hour (during the 8X5 window and best effort during other windows).  This includes the items being worked by Brian with the Gratia development team (I am not sure of the specifics below and they should be clarified by Brian/Phillipe):
a) record collection from sites is stopped for 1 hour or more
b) record collection from sites is falling progressively behind (as observed over 4 hours)
c) record collection is more that 24 hours behind the current time

---+++ Escalation
 
If an outage or abnormal condition is not resolved within 4 hours, escalation to Fermigrid Department Head and the OSG Production Coordinator. 
 
If an outage or abnormal condition is not resolved within one business day, escalation to Fermigrid Quadrant Head and the OSG Executive Director. 


-- Main.RobQ - 06 Aug 2010
