Feedback on Adobe Connect

Adobe Connect allowed to transmit remotely the workshop and to have some recording but only 1/3 of the material resulted of acceptable quality.

Here some notes on Adobe Connect, its use and way to improve future experiences.

Meetings are easy to schedule and advertise (AC provides an URL).
AC provides a central server storing the recordings of the meeting.
Recordings can be converted in FLV videos, even if conversion requires full playback on a machine and is resource intensive.

The time necessary to start the application and all the glitches (several times AC was not starting, sometime "freezing" the presenter's laptop) caused some presenters to prefer not to use it. A third party had to follow and record: this caused increased effort and poorer audio.

(to verify) An attendee has to record the session. Recording cannot simply be triggered and left running independently from attendees.
The use of a dedicated machine to record the session improved the

The support of peripheral is not reliable and standard: audio and video peripherals have to be tested, not always work, the quality is not constant (choppy audio).

The use for presentations of a dedicated machine with a known configuration tested in advance and tuned would improve the quality of transmission and recording.
Remote attendees were few and without expectations about the medium.
The adoption of a local operator controlling the quality of the transmission/recording would allow to catch promptly errors like crashes or missing or bad audio and could facilitate the recovery. 

ESNET and other centers are providing the science community with possibility to bridge IP and phone communications.
There is no known way to connect AC audio (or video) with these bridges.

The installation (opening the flash application) stalled more than once, specially on OS X.

The application crashed several (5-6) times during the workshop

It is not supporting PDF
- not all the presentations are available in the supported formats
- the suggestion to convert PDF to SWF did not work: I used pdf2swf, in AC the SWF file is looping quickly through all the pages making it impossible to use for a presentation

I contacted AC support and they suggested some solution:
- a windows application to create SWF (to be tested to see if these SWF work better)
- hardware (~$200) to allow wire tapping of a phone and transmission to a computer (to bridge the communication).


