Minutes of storage meeting: 11th May 2005
------------------------------------------


(1) Status of SRM-DRM (Alex Sim)

Alex was sick and unable to attend but reported via email:

we (SRM-DRM) are ready for the osg  release.
srm-tester works for the validation of SRM funcitonality of SRM-dCache 
and SRM-DRM, and its interoperability.



(2) Status of the SRM-dCache technical challenge and activity... (Rob Kennedy)

Rob agrees that the srm-tester does work (as stated by Alex) for SRM-dCache

Two stage rollout for SRM-dCache

First: client tools (version 1 version of the tools) that will go to integration testbed [ITB] but not be deployed

version 2 of the tools will have more functionality. (will be version 2 of SRM.)  this version will be integrated into VDT and deployed on the production grid

timeline:  in two weeks cosmetic issues addressed with version 1 of tools and will be ready for deployment in the ITB

version 2 will likely be another month before all functionality they want in place.  May have most functions then, then release full 
functionality
in a 2.1 release.

Full functionality is full version 2 interface.  only thing they are worried about is the explicit space reservation.

implicit space reservation is "make sure when you transfer one file there is space for that file."  so its per file

explicit space reservation says that a VO or user has space dedicated to 
them
that is gauranteed.

technical challenge lessons:  nothing more learned since what was reported last time.

OSG official install method will be:  rpms w/ gui site configuration, 
and with
persitent upgrades, then a thin wrapper could be built to make a pacman 
install.


(3) SRM-IBP "Parallel Depot" Storage Element

Presentation given is docid #129 in the OSG document database

comments/discussion:

need to figure out how to implement interfaces (?) to pubdb, phedex, at least for CMS use...

Jorge suggests that we present this to the deployment group, let them know we intend to install this element on the grid, make them aware of the product.

we will send a message to deployment.

Rob:  we need a reasonable variety of approaches behind the SRM interface. We need in our "back pocket" 3-4 friendly competitors, so that we can adapt as technology changes in the next 5 years... we can't predict what changes will occur but we can flexible so we can adapt.


