DRM Deployment Readiness Plan    The Readiness Plan for the DRM deployment activity presented to OSG-Integration
Goal: is to deploy DRM (A SRM implemtation onto of a normal unix filesystem) on to a standard OSG-CE. 
Purpose: is to provide managed access to tactical storage on execution sites.
Method: provide access to tactical storage through the SRM interface, (put SRM on to the $DATA space). Operate the site with the new service and establish that the operation of all other Grid3/OSG services function properly and/or as expected.

Setup collaborative infrastructure 
Find team of volunteers to help out

Create web presence for the activity. Place to display everything needed to communicate with collaborators and other interested parties. This is where documents will be uploaded and links to other info will be found. Status: I am trying to use the OSG plone... but it is slow and doesn't do everything I need. May opt to use html/php on ivdgl webserver since I know how to do that. 
Setup an email list with archives. Use also OSG fnal list server but heavy weight. need to fill out form and maybe need to send blood type 
Indentify resources to use 
Enlist the technology experts. DRM, VDT, Grid3 integration and application managers 
Pick a hand full of sites and application submitters 
Create Software cache based on a recent working version of the grid3dev cache and add DRM components 
Write pacman cache 
Write instruction: A combination of old grid3dev instruction and new stuff for DRM configuration 
Operate the new CE site 
Make connections to the Grid3/OSG authorization system 
Excercise the DRM services 
Perform a simple set of atomic tests of the new DRM service: get, put and delete a file 
Simulate a simple application run: an simple app will put a file run a job that access the file and creates another file and finally move the file of  the site. 
Test and verify the site 
Check that all services including the DRM work as expected 
Schedule an CMS application test and determine what changes need to be made to the site configuration and Grid3/OSG services 
Repeat 2. with another application (ATLAS) or (SDSS?) 
Determine and document performance and scalability of the site with the added DRM services

Performance of the other services, GRAM, GRIDFTP, MIS... 

Performance of the DRM services 
