Here are the Meeting Minutes for September 28th 2005. 


Minutes of storage meeting: October 2005 2005
------------------------------------------

a) Please could you review and comment on the results of the Local Storage Element/ CE Storage 
activity that Marco is completing to present to the Integration and Deployment activities this week.

Integration of a Compute element and a Storage element was discussed.Marco updated how the classic non
SRM SE is being integrated into a CE. Its different from the UCSD implementation of a SRM based SE integration. 
The detailed document. Summarily this is a blue print for a CE/SE integration plan. Surya suggests that this could be used 
as a design guideline.

It would be great if all TG storage people can take a look at Marco's existing twiki page and contribute their thoughts
the link is http://osg.ivdgl.org/twiki/bin/view/Integration/LocalStorageRequirements   


b) SEs on OSG. Please could you review the status and situation of SEs on OSG. 
US CMS is starting to make use of Local SEs for the applications we will be running on OSG at 
and beyond SC2005. We expect this is a similar situation for ATLAS.

Abhishek suggested a seven point scale to measure the readiness of SE
 
1- SE deployed at a Site.
2- SE verified to be functional (all tests) for Wide-area transfers.
3- Site's CE configured with srm-client on all worker nodes.
4- SE verified to be functional from a worker node on Site's local CE.
5- Site's monitoring (eg., LDAP/MDS2) configured to publish SE's
   contact information to a grid monitor (eg., GridCAT).
6- Grid monitor configured to add/test this Site's SE (test 2 & 4).
7- Grid monitor verified to display near-real-time status.

Sites could also be benchmarked on a similar basis...

This needs to be revisted. Points can be added deleted and modified, essentially the idea of sucha a scale would be that, 
when a SE is developed how is it benchmarked. Where does it stand on the seven point scale (or n-point)?

c) SRMCP. Neha is continuing to work with the Fermilab SRM activity on provisioning and 
support of SRMCP and Fermilab-SRM for OSG. This is an initial SVDT contribution from Fermilab.
She is working as part of Timur's project. If there are requests for SRM development and testing please 
let her and Timur know.

We discussed the interoperability issue and vanderbilt will continue developing the intial design plan with fermi lab's help
and present it on the TGStorage forum sometime after SC2005 (sometime soon).

d) SC2005 related issues 
Discussed coordination issues. Handouts, brochures etc...