Here are the Meeting Minutes for September 28th 2005. 


Minutes of storage meeting: 28th September 2005
------------------------------------------

----------------------------
1. Overview of JLab Meeting held on 14th September at Newport News, Virginia


 a) Proposals	
	Each of the proposals were discussed. Fermi Lab suggested a proposal that has a scalability issues with testing. 
Other items discussed where using SRM's with other tools such as xrootd. Replica registratioin service was discussed.
A new one on the lines of SRM should be built. Alan Tacket and Kevin McCord also discussed Vanderbilts effort on L-Store
(using IBP).    

----------------------------
2. Summary of changes for SRM version 3.0
Different features/functions

a) Space reservations and advanced functionalities were segregated into core functionalities and then there are optional 
functions. For example, an advanced feature would be directory feature (copying from directory to directory). Version 3.0 
essentially is a reorganization of version 2.0.

b) Lifetime: Pinning
Users requested that pinning is an important function to support. Explicit life time for files...independent of the request. 
This issue has been just identified and one of the important issues.

c)Space types and file types
Suggestion was made that distinction be made between storage and space. One can be called live cache and the other is near
line (its not offline). Once you have this kind of distinction, then a user can request either type and within that space
they can request timing requests for files. Near line can be between SE's.

d) Retention Quality of storage: Can you request type of storage? 

Three categories have been agreed on: (Suggested by Don Petravik)
a) Archival quality (Highest quality)
b) Middle quality
c) Replica Quality

The type of quality can be essentialy determines using a discovery function.But details have to be fleshed out.

e)SURL and TURL
If a file has stored in multiple places and a the file is requested back, the file will have a single SURL (with an associated
lifetime) where as multiple TURL's can exist with pin lifetimes. There is also a life time associated with TURL.

f)Functions that are common between core and advanced functionalities:

For example space reservation<--->prepare to get() (How to specify it?) (Revisit this point in the future).
Backward compatibility is the goals between future client generations


2) Administrative: Next meeting in 6 months? where?

Probably in Europe (no place was selected), probably April 2006.

----------------------------
3. Interoperable SE on OSG: What are they

a) Interface


b) Security


----------------------------
4. SC2005 plans/presentations

Essentialy who is doing what was discussed. An idea was discussed where we can put everything under a common OSG banner
essentialy storage efforts that different organizations are doing.
 


