%META:TOPICINFO{author="RuthPordes" date="1220364175" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="GridFest08"}%
 Left page, inside:

What is the OSG?

The Open Science Grid is a national computing infrastructure for science co-funded by the Department of Energy and the National Science Foundation.

The Open Science Grid contributes to the World Wide LHC Computing Grid as the US infrastructure on which the LHC experiments depend. OSG collaborates in this Collaboration together with EGEE and NGDF National Grid Infrastructures.

By leveraging advanced software technologies, OSG brings together computing and data resources across campus, regional, national and international boundaries. More than 50 independent provider sites from more than 23 states in the US contribute to the power of the OSG.

OSG is an expanding alliance of universities, national laboratories, scientific collaborations and software developers.

OSG builds bridges to move data and jobs between infrastructures &ndash; including the EGEE in Europe and TeraGrid in the US, as well as internally and between University Campuses. OSG enables researchers to harness resources that span national and international boundaries.

Right page, inside

Facts & figures

90 Members in the Open Science Grid Consortium members

23 US states + District of Columbia are represented

30 Virtual Organizations participate

Examples of OSG applications: Particle physics, astrophysics, bioinformatics, medical imaging, education, nanotechnology, chemistry, geography

14 other Grid, Network Organizations, international, national, regional and campus grids   Partnerships.

Hours of computation on OSG resources: More than 120 million since August 2007

OSG for LHC: In 2006-2007 OSG provided the

ATLAS and CMS collaborations with 30% of total processing cycles and moved more than 100 terabytes of data across 7 storage sites.

OSG for the Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory:

OSG for non-Physics: 

-- Main.RuthPordes - 02 Sep 2008