%META:TOPICINFO{author="AnneHeavey" date="1165402850" format="1.1" version="1.2"}%
---+ 
---++ Feedback
doubled readership
sleazy outfit
what is our relation with grid today
point to industrial , they use us for scien content
we link only to their orig content
dispersed group of people

open disc with grid today - how to work with each other, not step on toes, etc.

egeee-- tech deve for science gets to industry

don't want to do plugs

mandate for isgtw -- summ of chic meeting -- to be written

what's a biline? Idea to add feedback to author/cc to editor

web stats:
3800 hits so far

get more publicity, make it more interesting

---++ weekly editorial sched

xeno does layout now, in future editor will do
deadline, content a week ahead
ediotr layouts thurs, preview sent to adv board on Fri JJ, PA, HH,
Paul forwards to nsf and doe
feedback to ky by end of day monday
24 hours  to get ti out, tues, editor can make edits, send out wed am cern time
balance politics 
contact nsf , doe (give warning) by phone
have a paolicy
read everything with this in mind: who's going to be reading, who will feel slighted
feedback from doe/nsf comes from paul a

get feedback only from people you've met, they must feel comfortable with you

hasn't had to run a correction -- would have to be a grave effor

egee doesn't send it on to nsf-equiv, would be the EC, EC are subscribed to it
maybe check in couple times a year, very hands off

Advisory board
What is role?  Francois and Ruth involved but not on adv board

editorial board -- ky, owen, some osg person, two others

preview not sent to contributing editors

ruth's prob

us and europe

egee partner with many proj

osg by itself, and then other grid proj

more eur news, each country has projects
osg has less news, 
main editor to spend more time writing about other us projects

push in us to affiliate small grids to teragrid
europe ahead in cluster grids, behind in supercomp grids
150M for 5 yrs to teragrid, have approached 

funding 35M/y for manpower in eur for grid

more smaller proj in euro, 

jj: the initial complaint, more communication coming from eur, looks like all activity in eur
the resources aren't there in us, finally nsf funded katie's position, brought out sgtw + more
ky changed that balance, now is balance going to change again to eur?
eur pay more for comm than u.s.
don't want to slip back
wonder if can get more funding from nsf to right the balance

bring in kurt splee? from nsf, is major commm for nsf, involved with lhc comm. 
most u.s. projects that ky covers are nsf, not doe
need generous travel budget

fg: keep statistics to check balance
try to docu how much activity there really is, collect info about all grid projects, owen started, spent 2 mos, requires 3 mos
intensive to follow up

grid today wants db of grid projects
we could work with them, then we'd know how to check rumors, maybe not really useful

RUth and Bob Jones join

Discuss balance between US and Eur 

grid funding for comm much more in EU than in US
work hard to make sure US stories get told
rp thinks good idea to talk to Kurt

---++Editorial duties/breakdown, next steps with isgtw editor

Plans over next 6 months
KY moves to CERN press office
JJ we will fund fulltime editor for i
paid 6 mo by FNAL as term employee, living at CERN, t

after that, establish CERN fellwosip funded by egee to get longterm, then make support come out even
goal -- all contribute to make it work
danielle will give 6 mon at least, then clearer idea how to move forward

fg:opening call for pos filled by apr 1 for fellow, 1 yr before end of egee proj. Danile may be candidate for that position.
2 scen -- it's Danielle, or other person and overlap with Danielle

egee2, egee3 in future

ruth: kevin says purch order throuh cern went smoothly, bob says don't use consultants here. complicated and tax rules

longterm plan for xeno, and who to pay
just hired to setup site and newsletter, not continuing contract, haven't discussed keeping them on
fnal has big contract with them, bundled sgtw in with others. may continue to do that (low-level), call in a pinch, xeno very
reliable, isgtw is fancier than html, need backup.

editors from osg, egee as backup for isgtw,
e.u is good at listing how much money was funded
xeno still doing layout, funding may just be fnal or euro too. then question about geneva company, so funding may be challenging, so easier if fnal funds that

danielle stepped out: about making her official offer, 

bob jones: how to bring in asia, how to find appropriate asian partner
kek has communications person for HEP
simon lin in taipei
do issue press releases, event in may, wehre  osg, egee will be involved, talk with simon then, Stella works with him
Heavily involved in LHC
Simon's here this week, FG saw him, try to meet with him.
benefits and resp of being contributing editor
asia isn't unified, another proj in japan, 
sou korea, slow responses
india?  eu-india project, know peopl with chep, english language

gridpp in uk (funded intern helen)

contrib editor
who to invite, defined comm, one pt of contact
incentive to contribute besides putting logo on
asking one contrib per mo
promotes their region, gets their message out, crossing atlantic is incentive
eu-funded proj, have obligation to do outreach, can encourage to isgtw

use promotion scheme where performant editors get some benefits
how to deal with nonperformant contributors, differnt 
get interns who has no other obligations who writes stories that we publish, suggest

ky proposes reg meeting with osg, egee, uk grid-pp, teragrid (editorial board)

function of adv board
review function when review comes out

bobj: 1st few issues, look good, adv board: periodic review
strategic dir, funding, contributions, conflicts
try for late march before candidate is chosen

rp is exec dir of osg which is funding position, doesn't want to be in adv board, wants to continue to get previews, still wants paul to ...
ex-officio -- member by virtue of your position representing stakeholder
fg: lcg news --> grid news, then he becomes contrib editor for lcg (he'll check with lcg, else sim to ruth)
ruth happy to be ex-officio member representing osg exec.

expand preview to other contrib editors?  owen: yes, may give better sense of buy-in

rp: input for next few issues, thre will be minutes.  
rp and bob j leave; it's noon now.
-- Main.AnneHeavey - 06 Dec 2006
