%META:TOPICINFO{author="KyleGross" date="1225985953" format="1.1" version="1.9"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHomeOld"}%
---+ Oct 10, 2005
---++ Agenda 
   * Experience with CEMon and the resource selection (ReSS) project
   * Discovery Service developer information (resource and software publishing)
   * SE monitoring update
   * GIP/BDII for OSG 0.4 discussion   
   * AOB

---++ Minutes
   * Attending
Michael Thomas, Laura Pearlman, Shaowen Wang, John Roschek, Conrad Steenberg, Gabriele Garzoglio, Tanya Levshina, Leigh Grundhoefer, Rob Gardener (?), Marco Mambelli at FNAL. 

   * Experience with CEMon, ReSS from Glite

Gabriele mentions the aim of providing a provide a generic service so that jobs can be submitted to resources that qualify for D0. Second phase: resource selector should be general (both D0 and OSG sites).

The plan to deploy CEMon as part of OSG because it has capability to gather Glue schema info in classadd info, which can be fed directly into the Condor Condor Matcmaker, thereby making the scheduling proccess more efficient.

Already started to investigate how well CEMmon workswith Glite and VDT. Note that this doesn't require using the full Glite Workloaf management system (WMS), only CEMon.

Tanya: Installation: install from VDT 1.3.7 successful, but CEMon version is 1.3 instead of 1.4 - took latter and install op top of VDT (1.3.7). Problem: tomcat only accepts old proxy format (-old) Problem with Apache server.

Using the  Glite trust manager it was found that it cannot handle certificate chain correctly: use proxy ID instead of certificate ID,  requiring sites to put both DNs in the  Gridmap file.

In the course of the current tests, the LCG information provider was used to publish the classadd info.  Would be interested in GIP in future instead. 

Currently information is gathered from a CEMon web service, with plans for a central server that can push all the CEMon information into Condor. This "Information Gatherer" is a planned development for the future.

   *  Discovery service 

As part of feedback from Iosif Legrand (MonaLisa developer) and OSG the discovery service is being optimized  and expanded to include more information in the basic web services discovery schema, including arbitrary key/value pairs. The new schema information for developers can be found at http://ultralight.caltech.edu/gaewiki/DiscoveryServiceUpdate

This new schema will be used as part of  a new discovery service release sometime this week

E.g. the key/value feature is used to publish GUMS information, and mkgridmap.conf.  MonaLisa will now also propagate string values, whereas it used to only propagate numeric values.

Michael has started to look at implementing a Software Discovery service in addition to the current Web Service Discovery service, development is ongoing.

   * SE monitoring update

Bockjoo sent an update to the minutes of last week's meeting regarding SE monitoring:
<verbatim>
Hi Conrad,
I think John described gridcat does not do srmcp test in the current
production gridcat instance during last week's meeting.
Or probably, you misunderstood what he said and wrote the minutes.

Last week, I was debugging SE function test, srmcp because there was
complaint about gridcat not being able to be green for long time (
~ 2months). What I found was :
1) gridcat tests were reporting the test results correctly for
    SEs published by correctly configured GIP.
2) Main problem is GIP not being configured correctly on most of
    SE sites (4 SE sites at the moment).
I reported these points to Ruth and other people because she was the
original complainer of the SE problem on gridcat.
Now, GIP configuration including the part to correctly configure
SE (we are only dealing with srm-dCache at the moment.) is being
handled by the interoperability group based on the prescription that
I prepared for our site at Florida (Florida is not listed in the SE
at the moment, though). 
</verbatim>


   * GIP/BDII for 0.4
Don't have a good idea of what monitoring packages that would be needed at every site. I.e. what the common infrastructure should be. GIP discussion may be a start to provide enough info to run the operations service. No real overlap with ML/ACDC. Unclear that the GIP will provide VirtualOrganizations/VOInfo-based job monitoring.

Deployment group writes release description, of what is proposed for deployment. Document doesn't contain a reference to MIS-CI, step backward?

Marco: GIP has to be in OSG also because it is a requirement for compatibility with LCG. GIP only contains catalog info, no job monitoring information.
The question was posed whether GIP will replace Grid3 schema? answer seem to be "no":

GLUE Schema has space, for all the required information, but I don't know if the current GIP are providing all the information that was in Grid3 
schema. Since there is no minimum mandatory set in GLUE schema, you can be GLUE compatible and provide very little information.

Interest in the user-vo.txt file. Not part of Grid 3, but GUMS require it. GIP uses that file to do the mapping. The file should be part of the requirements.

Grid3info.conf and user-vo-map should stay, as the locations file in $APP. Make it clear these files are required beyond the Grid3 schema, for GIP.

The files mentioned: GIP tries to leverage the information available. Try not to duplicate but leverage current information including ML-provided info. Gridcat also provide this information. Seems like all this information is not part of the common infrastructure.

 There was a discussion on what common monitoring infrastructure must be deployed for a site to be part of OSG. E.g. MonaLisa is not required in the current 0.4 document, but Leigh mentions that sites are not considered to be "up" if they don't provide ML monitoring information. 

Shaowen has a list of what needs to be installed and will send it to the monitoring mailing list.


   * Discussion on BDII: 
question on VDT list: should MDS2 be deprecated? Is MDS2 required for BDII? BDII requires LDAP input from GRIS. BDII auth/no-auth but requires GRIS.

Populate BDII without MDS2: Marco thinks it's impossible atm. Laura: can use MDS4, using XML Glue schema data instead of LDAP.  Current scripts provide LDIF files. Have to extract XML->LDIF->BDII.  No way to do conversion utility yet. If the schema is known tool should be simple.

BDII (Berkeley DB Information Index) is a central DB with a set of Perl  scripts querying remote GRISes (LDAP servers with or without GSI authentication) to populate it. To replace MDS2.4 (GRISes) with MDS4 we are missing 2 scripts:

1. to convert the LDIF files produced by GIP and put them in XML as required by MDS4
2. to convert the XML output of MDS4 back to the initial LDIF format and serve it on the GRIS port as required by the BDII.
The script 1 and 2 should be simple (since GIP/BDII and MDS4 support both GLUE 1.2) but noone volunteered to do it.

GT4 has the GLUE schema in it. GRAM provides information to be converted to XML Glue schema.

Conrad: has there been a comparison between MDS2 (LDAP) and MDS4 (XML/web services) performance and resource requirements.

Laura: MDS4 seems more reliable: scales well in number of clients. No direct performance comparisons done yet. 
Command-line client uses Java VM, so standard startup delay to be expected.

BDII is a set of scripts in perl, so question was asked whether MDS4 can be contacted directly from perl.

Laura: Currently no, because GT4 uses WSRF services that cannot be contacted from standard SOAP client. Python can be used though. 

   * Deployment meeting about BDII: 
Hierarchical information propagation: send e.g. site GRIS information to aggregator site upwards in hierarchy. This will make interoperability with other Grids easier because translation of information between different formats more centralized, meaning it gets done only once.

Indexes feed into one another, only translate at higher levels, not on the site (bottom) level.