%META:TOPICINFO{author="RuthPordes" date="1327252217" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="OSGResearchHighlights"}%

---+ DZero Doing Double Duty

 

Super-symmetry, lepto-quarks, quark substructure and other curiosities are the quarry of DZero physicists looking beyond the Standard Model, the theoretical backbone of high energy physics.  Other DZero physicists continue to probe the Model, making ever more precise measurements. Located at Fermilab and described as a "general-purpose high energy physics experiment", the DZero detector slices and dices a broad range of particles and phenomena that only Fermilab's Tevatron, currently the world's highest energy particle accelerator, can produce.

Last summer the DZero detector underwent a substantial upgrade, including the addition of new components.  After any significant change to the detector, a precise calibration is required in order to properly quantify subsequent data.  DZero’s recalibration involved measuring, reconstructing and comparing millions of data events. It was completed in January 2007.

These calibration events will do double duty. In order to be used in physics analyses, they must first be "reprocessed" using the new calibration values.   In other words, during the calibration, these data were used to refine the reconstruction "recipe"; now these same (raw) data are being reprocessed using the new-and-improved recipe.

The experiment itself is thus doing double duty. DZero's local computing farm is busy with incoming data and unable to accommodate the reprocessing.  Some fraction of the needed computing power has been furnished by DZero’s distributed resources, largely saturated with simulation jobs, and by LCG. The bulk of the reprocessing takes place on twelve shared Open Science Grid sites via opportunistic access. On OSG, DZero has sustained execution of over 1000 simultaneous jobs, and has consumed/produced hundreds of Gigabytes of data.

 

"This is the first major production of real high energy physics data (as opposed to simulations) ever run on OSG resources," said Brad Abbott of the University of Oklahoma, head of the DZero Computing group. "There were some start-up problems on both the DZero and OSG sides, but we worked together and solved them."

Reprocessing is currently about 80% complete, and at 5 million events per day is progressing two to three times faster than originally planned. DZero co-spokesperson Dmitri Denisov of Fermilab is pleased:

"We try to get results out as soon as we can.  There's a natural analysis cycle that's influenced by the Tevatron schedule, conference dates, graduate student and postdoc terms, and of course, competition.  With OSG we’re making good progress."

In addition to the reprocessing effort, Denisov noted that OSG provided 300,000 CPU-hours to DZero for one of the most precise measurements to date of the top quark mass (170.5+-2.7GeV/c2).  DZero was able to achieve this result in time for the Moriond conference last March.

 ~Anne Heavey
   May 2007 


-- Main.RuthPordes - 22 Jan 2012