%META:TOPICINFO{author="RuthPordes" date="1327164184" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}%


---+ Testimonials 

 

"The support provided by OSG and the RENCI team was very helpful in addressing various software and hardware issues related to the distributed processing of large datasets, including job recovery and data compression and transfer. As comprehensive validation of numerical models for structural systems becomes increasingly important, the opportunistic usage of OSG's computational resources offers great leverage in terms of computing power for NEES researchers."   ~André R. Barbosa, Ph.D. Candidate in Structural Engineering at UCSD and joining Oregon State University as a faculty member in January 2012 (December, 2011)

"We're concurrently working with three researchers who have diverse interests in accelerating their science by harnessing the Open Science Grid, in the fields of lung cancer modeling, electron microscopy image processing, and ECG data analysis.  And we have achieved our expected rate of 25-35% success in finding good protein models. In total, we've produced results for 24 researchers. Keeping in mind the scale of the computations we're running and the amount of data involved in each job set, we're happy with our numbers." -- Ian Stokes-Rees, Research Associate in Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology at Harvard Medical School (March, 2011)

"Having adapted its SAMGrid data system to use the new GlideinWMS workload management system, D0 is now running its simulations successfully, both across OSG and the European EGEE sites. Since we now use the OSG tools to submit directly to EGEE sites, we can keep one set of code for all the grid infrastructures we use, making maintenance, monitoring, and jobs themselves much more efficient." -- Adam Lyon, D0 physicist and head of the Run II production support group (February, 2010)

"OSG allowed us to ramp up usage to nearly complete utilization almost overnight.” -- David Swanson, Director, Research Computing Facility at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln (October, 2009)

"The DZero experiment used around 200 CPU years of the OSG resources to generate simulated events for observation of single top quark production. This represents around 85 million fully reconstructed events. These simulated events are critical for calculating which events to accept as "signal" and which to reject as ‘background’.” -- Dmitri Denisov, Co Spokesperson, DZero Experiment (August, 2009)

"The OSG software stack and operation services allows the STAR collaboration to aggregate its resources into a seamless pool of computational cycles covering for all Monte Carlo event generation needs. The monitored fabric offers a superb opportunity for carrying research with excellent efficiencies achieved." -- Jérôme Lauret, RHIC/STAR Software and Computing Project Leader, Brookhaven National Laboratory (May, 2009)

"As a testament to the efficiency of OSG infrastructure, we managed to complete about 3.5 million of ~40 minute jobs in 21 days, which is roughly 270 years of CPU time, running in total on about 12,000 hosts; one third of this workforce was from OSG." -- Mark Silberstein, Technion, Israel (January, 2009)

"Clemson University and RENCI are partners in providing their
expertise to teach researchers how to make use of the OSG infrastructure
and how they can contribute themselves to OSG--a give and take activity or the good of research, education and American competitiveness."--Sebastien Goasguen, Clemson University, OSG Campus Infrastructure Coordinator (December, 2008)

"OSG is the ideal workhorse for our calculations. We've run 60,000 jobs since last January, an order of magnitude beyond what has otherwise been possible. We're very grateful for the opportunity to use OSG."-- Andrew Schultz, Research Assistant Professor. Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, SUNY at Buffalo (September, 2008)

"The fact that it only took two weeks for me to get OSG installed, fully functional, and registered is pretty encouraging. And of course, we had a nearly working OSG install on the first day." --Malina Kirn, University of Maryland (CMS OSG Tier-3 site) (August, 2008)

"[The condor_preen tool] is an excellent example of how middleware should work.  The results are  the most informative email I've gotten from a  piece of computing infrastructure. Something well worth emulating by others." -- Frank Wüerthwein, CMS Computing Commissioning Co-Lead (July, 2008)

"U.S. ATLAS is still in the midst of a large simulation exercise, computing system commissioning and now the full dress rehearsal. OSG is delivering the CPU cycles we need, on a robust and stable fabric." -- Jim Shank, Boston University (June, 2008)

"OSG has become a dependable facility for CMS on which the success of LHC physics computing can fully rely." -- Lothar Bauerdick, Fermilab (June, 2008)

"I have experienced very good response during the initial steps of preparing NCSA to provide resources to the OSG community. I look forward to taking an active role in OSG, providing NCSA HEC resources and facilitating access to other TeraGrid sources." (April, 2008)
-- Doru Marcusiu, Co-PI of NCSA TeraGrid Resource Provider

"OSG staff was extremely helpful in making CHARMM run on the OSG.  Now CHARMM runs beautifully." -- Ana Damjanovich, Johns-Hopkins University (February, 2008) 

-- Main.RuthPordes - 21 Jan 2012